What is the basis of the success of the company?
When we analyze our industry, we must work out a list of factors of success,
which will consist of two parts, the basic and the strategic.
What is the basic?
These are the factors of success, the positions that all players in the industry have approximately the same.
All these issues, the issues marked in black, are solved equally successfully, equally cheaply, equally quickly, equally efficiently.
No one can say that this is my competitive advantage, I have it better, it is cheaper or it is faster.
All players in the industry have the same positions.
These are the issues that we must solve in order to get the right to play football.
When we discuss strategic factors, we are talking about positions where one competitor may look a little better, and the other a little worse.
Someone gets it faster, someone slower, someone gets it more expensive, someone cheaper.
For example, retail.
I will tell you a story from one of my acquaintances.
In her student years, she worked in one of the retail stores, as a cashier.
A large player in the retail market in Germany.
In the mid-90s, this player did not have a scanner at the cashier.
And since the positions in the assortment were limited, 800-900 positions in the assortment, this is not such a large list.
One kind of cheese, one kind of beer, one kind of yogurt.
And the cashier at the cashier, in principle, remembers all the prices by heart.
Ideally, the cashier at the cashier should not look at the cash register, but should pull the units through the cash register at maximum speed and drum with his fingers on the keyboard, typing in the price.
So my acquaintance told me that if she saw a third person in line and saw what was in his basket, she already counted it in her head.
And the speed of her work with the product was so high that she pulled through her cash register much more units and much more buyers than the average cash register operator on their network and competing networks.
It was a cashier crisis, a small competitive advantage that was taken from store to store, showing other cashiers how to work.
And she unloaded the queue at the peak hours at the cash registers.
It can be considered a small competitive advantage, and in this scheme it will be highlighted in blue, because there is an employee on the cash register in all networks who pulls the product through the scanner or through the cash register at a certain speed.
But if she does it faster than the rest, she can claim the status of a small competitive advantage, which we designate in this scheme in blue.
In red, unique features of a company in a certain industry, which are only in its business model, which do not have competitors, are designated.
In other words, the list of basic issues can be quite large. In highly competitive industries, 80% of what our company does, its competitors do it, and with about the same level of efficiency, equally cheap, equally fast, equally high quality.
20% we leave for strategic factors, which can be highlighted in blue and red. Blue are the things that all competitors do, but not all of them do it equally well, equally fast or equally cheap.
And red positions are unique for a company that has A and does not have B and C.
On this slide you see a list of basic and strategic factors of success of a company that produces kitchen furniture in the comfort class segment.
Remember, there are economy, comfort and premium. In this case, it is the comfort class. The company has analyzed its industry and eventually divided all the factors of success into two parts, the basic and the strategic.
If we look at this matrix, we will see that all players in the industry already use approximately the same components, equally high quality. Everyone has more or less the same developed purchasing logistics.
Everyone has a delivery of furniture and its installation. And everyone has an Internet site. This is the so-called basic.
The list of strategic factors is quite large at the moment. The achievements on this list are not the same for all players, so we consider them strategic. Let's see how functional the kitchen is.
The second point on this list is the high-tech equipment that allows you to satisfy individual customer requests. Someone has such equipment, someone does not have such equipment yet.
The third factor is the optimality of production processes. Someone's production in the industry is well-organized, there are few defects, shortcomings, and low waste. Accordingly, production costs are less. Someone's production is not so well-organized, and accordingly, costs are more.
The deadlines. Someone manages to make the kitchen faster, someone has bad deadlines, and the company does not meet its promises on the deadlines for the client, and delays the production process and the order process.
The number of salons where the kitchen is sold is also a strategic factor. Not all players in the industry are equally successful. The creativity of advertising on this list. There are players who have terribly creative advertising, memorable, and there are players who are not so good.
But the company does this analysis with an eye to the future, so in the second column we can see how the situation will change in the next 2-3 years. We see that some of the strategic sections are added to the basic ones that are on the list at the moment.
The list of basic sections will change according to the company's forecasts. The functionality of the product, the availability of high-tech equipment, the availability of a good IT system. This is still in the strategic sections, but since the standards of competition are growing, in 2-3 years it will move to the category of basic. It will be equally successful, cheap, fast, and of equal quality for everyone.
And the companies in the industry will be discussing the following list among themselves. On the design of furniture, on the ability to make int-poshiv, on the strength of the brand, on the warranty terms after warranty service, on the speed of order execution, on the speed of innovation and new ideas, both in the field of technology and in the field of materials.
Another strategic factor is the range of networks in which furniture is sold, as well as the design of the showcase and what is inside the store. And, of course, such an important point as working with customers in the salons. The company's strategy will be built around this list in the near future.
The rest of the questions are related to the category of basic. These questions should be solved by default. They are necessary, but not enough to win over competitors. This is the analysis of the factors of success. It should be done as a result of the analysis of the industry. I strongly recommend you do it.
I remind you that all analytical work before developing a strategy consists of two sections. This is a strategic analysis of the external environment and a strategic analysis of the company itself.
We discussed two basic tools that are recommended to use when analyzing the external environment. The analysis of the far factors, PEST, and the analysis of the near factors is a five-force scheme, which is very well described in the works of Michael Porter.
We now understand our external environment, we understand how it will change in the near future. The second work that we need to do is a strategic analysis of the company itself. What is good and what is not so good. And the second point is the so-called requirements of the owners, which can have a significant impact on our strategy.
The analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the company, which is convenient to do in the format of the so-called value chain. The value chain is a term that Michael Porter also proposed.
The idea is quite simple. A business can be imagined as a set of processes that create value for a target audience and processes that help these main processes create this value.
Porter calls the first category of processes primary processes, and the second category is secondary. Primary processes participate in the formation of value for a target audience, and secondary processes help the main processes create this value.
Let's imagine a conditional business, which is largely made up of six key processes. These are design, purchase, production, promotion, distribution, and service. All six processes can be called primary, because they are in a certain degree focused on creating value for a target audience.
The company also has auxiliary processes, which can be related to management of staff, management of finances, IT, general management. These are the things marked in yellow on this slide. They are usually through-the-way, helping the main processes create this value.
It is very convenient for each process to draw a triangle of time and quality to analyze its state at the moment. Ideally, each process of our company should be fast, high-quality, and inexpensive.
As in the old joke, in our restaurant, we can provide you with fast, inexpensive, and high-quality food, but you have to choose any of the three. Obviously, these triangles conflict with each other. As a rule, time conflicts with costs and quality. The faster, the more expensive, and probably the quality suffers.
The higher the quality, the more expensive it is, and the longer it takes. If the costs are low, there is a chance that we will have fast and low-quality food. If we want fast and high-quality, there will probably be more costs. We try to catch the optimum in this triangle of time and quality.
Let's look at an example. The company produces kitchen furniture and, according to this scheme, analyzes its strengths and weaknesses. We see some of its chains, namely design, purchase, production, promotion, sales and service.
Most likely, there will be both advantages and disadvantages in each piece of the chain, and a brief list of the company's pros and cons.
If we talk about their design, then, by and large, everything is good in this process. The company uses modern solutions for design, but, objectively assessing itself, says that it would be possible to implement innovations faster.
Customers want innovations, want something new, but the design team does not always do it quickly. Therefore, on a 10-point scale, 1 minimum, 10 maximum, we estimate this process at 7. A strong 7, but not more.
The purchasing process. Everything is not bad in this process. The company uses high-quality components, the process is well-organized, we are friends with the suppliers.
But there are disadvantages. In some positions, we depend heavily on the program of our suppliers. If a client comes to us and says, I want an orange countertop, we say that we only have blue, pink, yellow and lilac.
And the client says, I want an orange countertop. We have to call our suppliers and ask how quickly they can make the same orange countertop. Suppliers can say, sorry, guys, we have our schedule, we will release exclusively red in the next 3 months.
And such situations happen. The company tries to fight this, to actively manage this aspect, but it does not always work out. Therefore, we cannot give 10 points to this process at the moment, but we put a solid good 8.
The production process is also set aside for 8 points out of a maximum of 10. Everything is very good there, good equipment, high-tech, capable of performing individual requests, very low marriage level, very low waste level, very few in-production delays, set-aside production processes.
But there are a number of disadvantages. This is not a very high speed of order execution. Basically, this is due to the fact that limited production capacities do not allow our company to cope with the flow of orders that may be at the moment. And all this together, we add up and put a solid 8 to our production process.
We move on to promotion. Here, as we can see, everything is very bad, the score is very low, we have not found any advantages in this process, only one is a complete disadvantage. The main one is that our advertising policy is very uncreative and our advertising is extremely unrecognizable.
This is our competitive advantage, not our competitive disadvantage. Therefore, we cannot give more than 4 points to our promotion process on a 10-point scale. The sales process is set aside for 8 points. We have a well-developed network, we have a lot of our salons, well-made, well-designed.
The salons are regularly washed, the showcase works perfectly, but in the regions this network is not very large, we would like to have a larger, wider household network in the regions, so we put 8 points in total to this process at the moment.
As for the service process, the process is also well-developed, we have a longer warranty period than most competitors, and our installers, unlike the installers of our competitors, work very well. They come at the time when they were promised, they install the kitchen with the doors closed, this is the main position of the company.
It is undesirable for the client to see how the sausage is made and it is undesirable for the client to see how the kitchen is installed. When the kitchen is already installed, everything is ready, everything is sparkling, everything is shining, we invite the client, he enters the kitchen, he has the first emotion like this. And this is a very important emotion, because he remains loyal, he recommends us to his friends, and so on.
Well, a small competitive advantage of our company is that our installers, unlike the installers of our competitors, do not smell and do not have bruises under their eyes. Competitors have a problem with this, if our client orders a competitor's kitchen, two rather gloomy subjects will come to him, one with a bruise under the left eye, the other under the right eye, they will come with a delay, they will install with a large number of problems, and after that they will leave dirt and garbage behind.
We have everything in this process, not bad, 8 points, he deserves maybe even 9, but so as not to relax, we will put 8. If you look at the entire chain, you will see that the company has a lot of advantages, these processes are marked in green, there are outright failures, as with promotion, this is a weak point, a weak side of the company.
But there are processes, let's say, average, we evaluated the design process for 7, highlighted it in yellow, according to the principle of a traffic light, stating that it cannot be included in the list of strong and weak, it will be something average.
Here is an example of the analysis of weak and strong sides, but there is another nuance. An important point to remember when analyzing weak and strong sides is that some conditional weak sides can be an integral attribute of your business model, and you deliberately made them like this.
For example, visitors to discount stores located outside the ring city can complain that it is far to go there, that there is a very small assortment in discounters, and that there can be quite long queues at the cash registers in the evenings.
But these features are an integral attribute of the business model of discounters, and only one side of the coin, the other side of the coin is usually very low prices.
We cannot criticize a hacksaw for the fact that it is difficult to hammer nails or a hammer for the fact that it is difficult to cut a tree into pieces. These are the aspects we must remember when we analyze weak and strong sides of our company.
The next point is the requirements of the owners, which we often have to take into account before developing a strategy. In general, they can be divided into two parts, these are the financial requirements of the owners and the so-called non-financial ones.
As for the financial requirements, usually all owners want money and set a certain target value of the profitability coefficient for the invested capital. On the slide you see the abbreviation ROE, Return on Equity, a very simple formula, the profit factor that our business earns over a period in the denominator of the capital invested by the owners.
This is the amount of capital of the company without loans, without borrowed funds, how effectively the dollars, euros, rubles invested by the owners work in the company. They can set a target value that is usually associated with risks.
At the same time, we must understand that the value of this minimum profitability of the invested capital can be different within the same company. Imagine that there is a business consisting of four business units that operates on the spare parts market. The company has two business units that sell spare parts on the market A and two business units that sell spare parts on the market B.
At the same time, one business unit on each market sells spare parts, and the other one sells spare parts for trucks. The minimum profitability value for the capital that reflects the risks of running a business is 21%, 23% in the first business unit, 25% in the third, and 29% in the fourth business unit.
This is the minimum profitability of the invested capital, the minimum greed of the shareholder. Why is it different? Because the risks are different. The risks can be external and internal. For example, in one market, two business units receive capital at 21-23%, and in another market at 27-29%.
The market risks are different. In one market, the risks are slightly higher, in another market, the risks are slightly lower, so the value of this bet can change. In addition, the risks can be internal. In the market A, the shareholder sets a percentage bet of 21-23%, says that everything is under his control, a professional team of managers, I trust them completely, and therefore they receive capital cheaper.
And in another market, not only external risks are higher, but also the team of managers is not very professional, I am constantly stressed with some questions, I constantly advise what bulbs to buy for the warehouse, and something like that, so the capital will be more expensive for them. The minimum profitability value is 27-29%.
Another financial requirement is the size of the business. For example, a company works in the ceramic tile market, a network of salons in which beautiful Italian tiles are sold. The owner of this network, who has three points, says, I do not want to grow, I am satisfied with such a small family business consisting of three salons.
I do not want to be a big company, because a big company is managed differently, it is 37 hours of work day, and so on, and so on, and so on. I do not want to grow. Another owner in the same industry says, and I want to grow, I want to be a big company, have a large share of the market, and I need a lot of salons, I want a company with a high turnover.
The third financial requirement that owners can often voice is the ratio of their own and borrowed capital. Let's go back to the company that sells spare parts. Until recently, the company worked on its own, and the capital structure consisted of a very large percentage of its own capital, under 80%, and the remaining 20% is a creditor's debt.
In the bank, the company did not ask for money, because, in principle, it lacked its own, plus creditors. But the company thinks about making some projects on the real estate market, that is, not just to trade spare parts, but to build several large malls, such shopping centers, in which some number of square meters will be used for the sale of spare parts,
and some number of square meters will be given to the STO, to an inexpensive hotel, to a general food point. In general, the company is interested in the real estate market, and all free money is directed to this area, and business units that trade spare parts are now forced to go to banks and take money there for further development.
The owner says that there will be no more debt, and look for money in banks, earn a credit history, increase the share of borrowed capital. In principle, in the interests of the owner, these business units should take money from banks, and not demand debt.
But at the same time, it can denote a certain minimum value of their own capital, which should be in their balance structure, because if this value of their own capital is too small, then risks become very serious for the owner.
In principle, the general world practice says that the share of your own capital should hardly be less than 10-15%, and then it is too risky, and it should hardly be more than 80%, because your own capital is quite expensive, and in the interests of managers, it is better to take less expensive money from suppliers or banks.
In addition to financial requirements, the owners can issue so-called non-financial requirements. For example, the head of the company IKEA, Ingor Kamprad, said in an interview with a journalist that IKEA will no longer be a public company, it will remain a family enterprise, and this is his main position, and he explains it as follows.
Back in the mid-1980s, he had a meeting with the leaders of the Soviet Union, and the highest officials promised him that IKEA would not experience any problems in the Soviet market.
The officials said that the assistant was giving good, and that they could put a million-dollar store in each city, and that they would be grateful to them.
And IKEA began to enter this market in the mid-1980s, and in 2006, as far as I know, it earned its first euro profits, it was making profits for about 20 years.
If IKEA were a public company, Kamprad says, the shareholders would say, Ingor, what 20 years? We want a profit, well, a maximum of two years. And this is a common thing in a public company, that is why Kamprad wants IKEA to be non-public.
Non-financial demands may concern the image of the company. The company Benetton has no doubt about advertising, the company believes that it is normal to challenge society, to apotheosis society, and not everyone agrees with them,
but the management and owners of the company believe that this is normal, this is good, this is acceptable, and if the hiring management does not like it, the hiring management can most likely find another place to work.
Non-financial demands may concern the product portfolio. Howard Schulz, the creator of Starbucks, writes in his book, this is the American coffee network, that initially he wanted to build a business very similar to Italian coffee shops,
but in a boutique type of establishment, where a very professional bartender can hear the customers who ate borsch and crab salad for lunch today and ask the bartender what kind of coffee to drink, taking into account that I had borsch and crab salad for lunch.
And the bartender had to tell him that in your situation I recommend mixing an interesting mixture, 40% of this coffee grown in Sumatra, 40% of this coffee grown in Kenya, and 20% of the remaining coffee from Jamaica. If you fry this mixture and cook it, then at the end you will get a drink that smells a little like raspberries.
This will be the best for you, taking into account that you had borsch and crab salad. This is what Starbucks was thinking. Now we see a completely different business model, because when they started to grow, it seems that in California they were asked to offer not just classic Italian cappuccino, which is made with quite fatty milk, but in California they were asked to offer cappuccino with fat-free milk.
And Howard Schultz had to break his values, what is called through the knee, including such a cappuccino in his product portfolio. He did not want to, but the customers demanded it. In some other American city, customers demanded that he include a sandwich with sausage in the assortment. This also contradicted the original idea of ​​Italian coffee.
As a rule, in Italy, in coffee shops, they do not eat sandwiches with sausage, but if the customers want. The manager of another company can say, dear manager, I want our company to be innovative, and we are engaged in exclusively innovative projects. Not innovative, not interesting, I do not want our company to be engaged.
There may be some non-financial requirements in the field of personnel policy, there may be requirements, let's say, on basic values. In one company I read, in the inter-company constitution it was written in very large letters, we do not give discounts. This is the principal position of the owners, and they should not explain why. The company should not give discounts, consider that they have such cockroaches in their heads.
Or charity. One Italian company works in the ceramic tile market. Of course, it has some financial results, but the owner of the company, the most important thing, when he is at home, talking to his neighbors, he shows them a hedgehog.
A hedgehog is such an earth ball, a globe, pierced with needles. Each needle means a place where you can look, and if you want, buy a tile of this Italian company. Not all points work profitably, but the owner of the company can say that the tile of his company is known, not necessarily bought. And in the northeast of Bolivia, and so on.
There is a very high probability that some points will never make a profit, and there is a very high probability that the opening of these profit-loss points will contribute to sales in other places. Most likely, there is no connection, but this is a kind of non-financial requirement of the owner, and he is interested.
So think about what financial and non-financial requirements of your owners can affect the strategy of your business, and be sure to take this into account when developing a strategy.
So, here is our main scheme again. Analysis of the external environment, analysis of internal factors. We discussed what the PEST factors are and what the five forces of the industry are. We talked about what the analysis of the weak and strong sides is and outlined the significance of the last such moment, the requirements of the owners.
The next task is to analyze the strong and weak sides of your company. I recommend that you depict your business as a combination of key business processes. It seems to me that there should be 10-15 of them, as a rule, so as not to get lost in the depths. But at the same time, 10-15 provide an acceptable degree of detail.
So, you represent a business as a chain of processes. Some of them create value for the client, some of them help to create this value. You draw a triangle of costs and quality time for each process. Ideally, the 10-point process is inexpensive, high-quality and fast, or temporary.
The process that we set to 1 or 2 on a 10-point scale is bad in all three corners. It is expensive, it requires a lot of resources, it is slow or not timely, and it is not very high-quality. But you must understand the achievements and problems that exist at the moment, digest it all and set a score.
The score is well remembered, you can use the principle of a traffic light, red, yellow, green. And those processes that are set to paint in green, those processes that have a lot of problems with buy-outs, we draw in red. And such average processes can be yellow.
Another task is to analyze the requirements of the owners. We remember that they can affect the strategy of the company quite seriously. And, in principle, they consist of two sections – financial and non-financial.
Financial is, as a rule, a requirement for the level of profitability for the capital itself and for the share of the capital in the overall structure. Non-financial can be called cockroaches, but they have to be taken into account when developing a strategy.
They can be related to the product portfolio, personnel policy, sphere of activity, and, in principle, anything. They need to be understood, they need to be recorded, they need to be taken into account.
Igor Armitiev, co-founder and chief company officer of Svetlana Erasateeva, resource manager, Krasnaya 就是azeri.net
Another analysis is a summary analysis, known as SWOT analysis, weak and strong sides, possibilities and threats.
It is done based on the results already obtained.
We see that PEST analysis, analysis of five forces, analysis of weak and strong sides are included in this SWOT analysis.
Let's see how it is done.
The general scheme is shown on the slide.
Four fields.
In one field we briefly list our key and strong sides of the business.
In another field we talk about our disadvantages, our problems, which we have at the moment.
In general, weak sides.
Again, briefly, the most key points.
Two more fields are intended for listing opportunities or chances and threats or risks.
There is an opinion, in my opinion, it is not quite correct, that the possibilities and threats are only some external phenomena from the external environment, from PEST or from five forces.
It's not quite like that.
My friends in Munich, the Controller Academy, were created back in 1971.
Albrecht Dail, their founding father, in his best years, gathered 120-150 people for author seminars.
They paid very good money and there was a fairly large list of expectations.
I remember those times from nostalgia, because those were very good times.
It was the same as having a license to print money.
But somewhere in the late 90s Dail began to hold less author seminars.
And in 2002, it seems, he was going to retire.
He raised a number of so-called apostles, his followers, his supporters, who continue to develop his ideas.
But they did not give.
Dail is the founding father, he gathered a large number of people for author seminars.
And the managers, conducting a photo analysis, say that there is a very high probability that sales will drop if our founding father retires.
The same way as the managers of the Manchester United football club can conduct a photo analysis and say that if Cristiano Ronaldo goes to Real,
the stadium will not be filled 100%, because a lot of people go to Cristiano Ronaldo.
So there can be threats and opportunities both from the outside and from the inside.
What we did at the stage of the PEST analysis and the analysis of the five forces, it is connected here, these two large arrows below.
But the arrows on the side, on the right and on the left, these light yellow ones, are some things from the inside,
which may well be here, remember the situation with Albert Dail, who was going to retire at the Controller Academy.
An example of a photo analysis in front of you.
This is a business that produces kitchen furniture.
In the yellow fields we see a list of the key strengths and weaknesses, as well as a list of key opportunities and threats.
Let's see. The company, among its strengths, has a high quality of products.
The product itself is cool, polished, there is little defect, the client likes it, it serves for a long time, there are constant compliments.
The company says that our strong point is the availability of good equipment, high-tech, flexible, which allows us to meet individual requests of our clients.
We currently have a very well-developed SBT network in the capital, and this is definitely our competitive advantage, our strong point.
The installation process is well-organized, the installers are polite, correct, professional, and they have a small feature,
when the installation of the kitchen is carried out, they invite the hostess home, show her the newly installed cool kitchen,
and give the hostess a beautiful rose, unexpected, and this affects the loyalty of the clients much more than all the outdoor advertising on the Leningrad Prospect.
This is a small feature, in principle, can be attributed to the list of strong points.
Weaknesses. The company, in principle, cannot boast of the brand's fame.
It cannot say that the brand is loud and that the company is very recognizable.
This is not the case at the moment, unfortunately.
There is no developed network in the regions yet, and this is a weak point.
Technical innovations, innovations in materials are introduced quite slowly.
We have already said that the dependence on the main suppliers is quite high.
These four positions can be considered a list of weaknesses.
As for the opportunities, the welfare of the target segment is growing, and the culture of consumption is changing.
The company would like to train its clients to be Italian, and the clients react to this easily, agree to behave like Italians when buying,
and the company is grateful to them for this and says that this is a positive fact.
In the market, credit resources are becoming more and more accessible,
and the company can use relatively inexpensive money to open corporate salons in the regions
and to credit its clients when buying a kitchen.
The company also considers the development of IT and the Internet as a chance, as a very interesting opportunity.
However, there are a number of problems, potential threats or risks.
The risk is the escalation of competition, the growth of value resources,
the increase of attention from the state to business, and the potential decline in the economy.
In principle, this is a classic SWOT analysis, when we briefly summarized our achievements and problems on one page,
and also identified the key opportunities and risks.
When we did SWOT analysis, a very useful addition to it is a cross-analysis within this SWOT analysis,
when we try to establish connections between the strong sides of our company and the existing opportunities and risks in these four fields,
as well as discuss how our weak sides are connected with existing opportunities and risks.
In this field, we ask ourselves how we can use our strong sides to take advantage of the opportunities that are open to us.
Or what opportunities, especially in the external environment, can make our strong sides even stronger.
Moving on to this field, we ask ourselves how we can fight the threats that we have to take into account in our business
due to our strong sides.
The second question we should ask ourselves is how threats and risks,
especially from the external environment, can weaken our strong sides, destroy them.
Moving on to this field, we ask ourselves what opportunities we can use to eliminate our weak sides,
which we should eliminate.
The second question is very important.
What disadvantages can prevent us from using the opportunities that are open to us?
And the last question, in the worst case scenario, on the cross-section of weak sides and threats,
is what disadvantages can prevent us from confronting the threats that we have.
The second question is whether external threats can further aggravate our weak sides.
This is a so-called cross-analysis that we do on the cross-section of these fields.
The results of this cross-analysis can be seen on the slide.
Each of the four squares has some ideas that can be taken and recorded in the business strategy right now.
So, let's go back to this slide, looking at which we are thinking about how to live on.
The distributor of household chemicals and cosmetics asks itself what's next, production, logistics or retail?
The company that produces lasers remains in this industry, remains a laser manufacturer,
but it can also develop in three ways.
Operational improvement, polishing the production and purchasing processes.
Innovative product leadership, investing in New Yorker, strengthening the brand, supplementing it with services.
The client is polished, not offering any innovative solutions, but making a customized product,
as much as possible tailored to the needs of each specific client.
But, of course, you also need to work well in the service sector.
These are three different ways.
And the first and second companies choose their own way, strategic analysis helps,
which, I will remind you again, consists of the following four tasks.
This is the analysis of the factors of the long-term environment in the external environment, PEST,
the policy of the economy and social technology.
Analysis of the factors of the near-term environment in the industry.
This is the competition of the supplier, client, suppliers and the fifth force, the entry barriers.
When analyzing the company, we look at its strong sides and its weak sides,
and also study the requirements of the owners.
After analyzing all these issues, we can think about alternatives and, in the end,
choose our strategy, choose our general line of the party.
The next task is the final SWOT analysis.
It is a summary of all previous analytical work.
We have to put it into the format of one page, which we divide into four parts,
rewrite the key strong and weak sides,
denote the key threats,
and then try to establish the connections between the strong sides of the threat,
as well as the weak sides of the threat.
After that, we have a complete picture of the state of our business at the moment,
what are its prospects, what are the chances it has to be considered,
and what are the threats to the internal environment, as well as to the internal one.
This is the necessary base on which we develop our strategy for the near future.
The final SWOT analysis
The key organizational aspects
In conclusion, I would like to focus on the key organizational aspects,
which are important to remember when conducting a strategic analysis.
My experience allows me to say that it is very good
if a small initiative group of three or four people is formed,
which will prepare a draft for discussion in a more extensive composition.
This small initiative group should consist of three or four people
who work in different structural divisions.
This includes marketing, production, logistics, and finance.
People from different divisions of the company will complement each other,
and after some work, they will be able to make a basic version for discussion.
This basic version is then discussed in an extensive composition at a meeting,
where 15-20 people can be invited.
They will listen to the members of the initiative group,
study this basic version, and start discussing, correcting, and supplementing it.
This is much more effective than gathering and discussing an empty sheet of paper.
If there was no such preliminary draft version,
a lot of time will go to preparing some raw information,
which must then be structured, organized, and presented in a normal way.
It is much more effective to make a basic version before the meeting,
and then discuss it in a wide circle.
Everything that is discussed at this meeting is recommended to be recorded
in e- or paper form, because very good thoughts are sometimes forgotten.
If they are put on paper, there is a chance that they will be realized.
I think that the exit format is necessary.
It is very difficult to disconnect from your routine in the office,
it is very difficult to disconnect your mobile phone in the office.
But if you go to the forest, breathe fresh air,
open your chakras, this process will be much more effective.
I think that you should do this twice a year.
I recommend going to a dental doctor twice a year.
I think that strategic tests should also be taken twice a year,
because everything changes quickly in every industry,
competition changes, clients change.
If you do not do this often enough, there is a chance that you will not have time.
Dear colleagues, I am sure that in addition to using your business,
you are conducting strategic tests,
you will enjoy the tests.
I hope that the thoughts that you saw in these slides
will be useful for your business.